---
description: OriginTrail, Vechain, Ambrosus
---

# Blockchain & Supply Chain Solutions

<table><thead><tr><th>Traits</th><th data-type="checkbox">TRAC</th><th data-type="checkbox">VET</th><th data-type="checkbox">AMB</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Whitepaper</td><td>true</td><td>true</td><td>true</td></tr><tr><td>Open source</td><td>true</td><td>false</td><td>true</td></tr><tr><td>Permissionless</td><td>true</td><td>false</td><td>true</td></tr><tr><td>Decentralized</td><td>true</td><td>false</td><td>true</td></tr><tr><td>Knowledge graph</td><td>true</td><td>false</td><td>false</td></tr><tr><td>Run a node</td><td>true</td><td>false</td><td>true</td></tr><tr><td>Data using IoT</td><td>true</td><td>true</td><td>true</td></tr><tr><td>Multichain</td><td>true</td><td>false</td><td>false</td></tr><tr><td>Neutrality</td><td>true</td><td>false</td><td>true</td></tr><tr><td>Usability</td><td>true</td><td>true</td><td>true</td></tr><tr><td>Inclusiveness</td><td>true</td><td>true</td><td>true</td></tr><tr><td>Mainnet</td><td>true</td><td>true</td><td>true</td></tr><tr><td>Token</td><td>true</td><td>true</td><td>true</td></tr><tr><td>Distributed</td><td>true</td><td>true</td><td>true</td></tr><tr><td>Immutable</td><td>true</td><td>true</td><td>true</td></tr><tr><td>Standardization</td><td>true</td><td>false</td><td>true</td></tr><tr><td>Scalability</td><td>true</td><td>false</td><td>true</td></tr><tr><td>Interoperability</td><td>true</td><td>false</td><td>true</td></tr><tr><td>Own your data</td><td>true</td><td>false</td><td>false</td></tr><tr><td>Fixed supply</td><td>true</td><td>false</td><td>false</td></tr></tbody></table>

### Vechain

Vechain is a Chinese-based company founded in 2015. It offers blockchain-as-a-Service to enterprises for products and information, through the VeChain Thor blockchain. Users can build smart contracts on the VeChain blockchain which in turn aims for end-to-end tracking for all their products. One of their tracing implementations relies on RFID chips attached to their products. The Vechain Blockchain is centralized - all provided services are stored and governed by one provider. This is a potential data privacy risk if the company ever gets audited by the Chinese government.

The consensus mechanism of VeChain is Proof of Authority, which means changes to the software are approved based on the consensus of the shareholders of the company. VET, Vechain's ERC-20 token, must be used by all users to get products and services from Vechain. VTHO, the gas token, is generated from VET based on supply and demand.&#x20;

Some use cases include [carbon emission tracking to help China tackle its carbon emissions](https://saasindustry.com/news/vechain-creates-saas-products-for-chinas-digital-carbon-emissions-market), [Walmart China Blockchain Traceability Platform](https://cointelegraph.com/news/walmart-china-subsidiary-teams-up-with-vechain-to-trace-food-products) (this partnership has been going on since 2019, but has [barely seen any activity on the network](https://seevechain.com/burn-usd)), [LVMH startup project](https://lamaisondesstartups.lvmh.com/startup/vechain/) in the fashion industry, Petfood companies, Medical companies such as Bayer, Auto Industry, like B.M.W and Renault, Logistics providers such as DH. Despite the partnerships, Vechain's network activity has been extremely low, totalling less than 100$ of VTHO burnt a day. See below for live Vechain network activity.&#x20;

{% embed url="https://seevechain.com/burn-usd" %}

### Ambrosus

Ambrosus is a decentralized data storage network (IPFS) and a blockchain-based ecosystem that allows stakeholders in a supply chain to verify the origin, quality, compliance, and proper handling of items tracked on the network. The network known as AMB-NET acts not only as a technical sidechain for Ethereum but also for any other EVM-compatible blockchain. Ambrosus can also seamlessly integrate with existing ERP and CRM systems to enable transparency and digitize processes. Ambrosus uses IoT hardware and advanced sensitive sensors (one that even can detect pH levels, allergens, DNA, and other types of physical properties) to tag products, thereby tracking goods through the supply chain and ensuring the full integrity of comprehensions. All data is automatically assigned an ID and made compatible with GS1, GLN, GTIN, and SSCC so as to be practically relevant for modern traceability standards. Zero-knowledge proof is used to authenticate users while maintaining strict privacy. AMB, an ERC-20 token, can be used to pay for transactions on AMB-NET. Every time an asset or event is created, AMB is required as a fee. AMB is the collateral required to run a Masternode in AMB-NET. This requires users to lock a certain amount of AMB in order to be considered a Masternode.

{% hint style="info" %}
As of August 2022, the Ambrosus team has gone through a substancial transformation and are now focusing on DeFi with a new stablecoin rather than the supply chain side of their project. The team has completely stopped marketing and selling their decentralized data storage network.&#x20;
{% endhint %}
